Welcome to Introduction to Flask.
After watching this video, you will be able to Define the Flask web framework and describe its main features.
Explain how to install Flask on your machines.
Describe main dependencies of Flask.

And explain the main differences between Flask and another Python web framework called Django.
Flask is a micro-framework that can create web applications.
It is not opinionated like some other larger frameworks, and does not bind the user to a specific set of tools.
One of the complex dependencies of Flask is Python.

You will run Flask 2.2.2, which requires a minimum Python version of 3.7.
In 2004, Armin Ronisher created the framework as an April Fool's joke.
It quickly gained popularity for its ease of use and extensibility.
Flask provides minimal dependencies you might need to create a web application.

However, it is extensible, and many community extensions add additional features to Flask.
The main features of Flask include the following.
Flask has a web server that runs applications in development mode.
Flask also comes with a debugger to help debug applications.

The debugger shows interactive traceback and stack trace in the browser.
Flask uses standard Python logging for application logs.
And you can use the same logger to log custom messages about your application.
Flask provides a way to test different parts of your application.

The testing feature enables developers to follow a test-driven approach.
And you can use frameworks like PyTest and coverage to ensure your code works as desired.
Finally, developers can access the request and response objects to pull arguments and customize responses.
Now, additional features of Flask are the following.

The framework supports static assets like CSS files, JavaScript files, and images.
Flask provides tags to load static files in the templates.
You can also develop dynamic pages using Jinja Templating Framework.
And these dynamic pages can display information that may change for each request, or may check if the user is logged in.

Flask provides routing and supports dynamic URLs that are extremely useful for RESTful services.
You can create routes for different HTTP methods and provide redirection in your application.
You can write global error handlers in Flask that work on the application level.
And finally, it supports user session management.

Some of the popular community extensions that can be added to your application are the following.
Flask SQL Alchemy adds support for ORM, called SQL Alchemy, to Flask, giving developers a way to work with database objects in Python.
Flask Mail provides the ability to set up an SMTP mail server.
Flask Admin lets you add admin interfaces to Flask applications easily.

And Flask Uploads allow you to add customized file uploading to your application.
Here are some other extensions.
Flask Cores allows your application to handle cross-origin resource sharing, making cross-origin JavaScript requests possible.
Flask Migrate adds database migrations to SQL Alchemy ORM.

Flask User adds user authentication, authorization, and other user management activities.
Marshmallow adds extensive object serialization and deserialization support to your code.
Finally, Celery is a powerful task queue that can be used for simple background tasks and complex multi-storage programs and schedules.
Flask is available on the Python Package Manager, called PIP, and PIP is available in the lab environment.

However, if installing on your machines, it is recommended that you first create a virtual environment using the VENV or PIPENV module.
You can install Flask version 2.2.2.2.
Now, it is recommended to pin the version number of the dependencies in your application.
This ensures that the application can be reproduced from scratch in different environments like development, staging, and production.

It also ensures new issues and bugs are not introduced by mistake when packages are updated automatically without a version number.
Flask comes with some built-in dependencies that enable the various features.
WorkZug implements WSGI, or the Web Server Gateway Interface.
This is the standard Python interface between applications and servers.

Jinja is a template language that renders the pages in your application.
Markup Safe comes with Jinja.
It escapes untrusted input when rendering templates to avoid injection attacks.
It's Dangerous is used to sign data securely.

This helps determine if data has been tampered with and is used to protect Flask's session cookie.
And finally, Click is a framework for writing command line applications.
It provides the Flask command and allows adding custom management commands.
To see the built-in dependencies, you can use the pip freeze command in the virtual environment.

And you can see that all the inbuilt packages are installed by default.
Now, another Python developer framework is Django.
Here are some key differences between Flask and Django.
Flask aims to be a very light framework.

Django, on the other hand, is a full-stack framework.
As a result, Flask only provides the basic dependencies needed to create a web application.
However, the developer can choose other extensions that provide additional features.
Django, on the other hand, includes everything you need to create a full-stack application.

Also, Flask is very flexible.
You can add and remove pieces in a plug-and-plane manner.
On the other hand, Django is opinionated and makes most decisions for the developer so they can focus on the application's logic.
In this video, you learned that...

Flask is a microframework that ships with minimal dependencies.
To build websites, Flask has features like debugging servers, routing, templates, and error handling.
Flask can be extended by using community extensions.
Flask can be installed as a Python package.

And Django is a full-stack framework compared to Flask.

[Trailing Whisper transcription artifacts on silence removed.]
